.. Copyright (C) 2021 Ian Dobbie <ian.dobbiue@bioch.ox.ac.uk>

   Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
   document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
   Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
   Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and
   no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the
   section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".

Troubleshooting
***************

This is a brief introduction to troubleshooting the configuration and
running a microscope via Cockpit.  More detailed support can be gained
by raising an issue on the Cockpit `github issues page
<https://github.com/MicronOxford/cockpit/issues>`__.

Startup issues
==============

In general there are two types of startup issues, either the system
does not start at all, or it begins its startup process and displays a
progress window and then fails connecting to a specific device defined
in the configuration files.

No response on startup
----------------------

If you start Cockpit by double clicking on an icon and you receive no
response after this there are few possible causes.  The system may not
be finding a critical component of Cockpit itself, or it may be
crashing while trying to parse its configuration files as these are
read before the window environment is created, and so not displayed.

The best solution to these types of problems is to start Cockpit from
a command prompt instead of clicking on an icon.  If the software is
correctly installed you should be able to open a command prompt and
type:

.. code-block:: bash

    cockpit

By starting from the command line you should get diagnostic output
from Python if errors occur during startup.

If the program halts later in startup there will be windows on the
screen.  The "Initialising Cockpit" window contains a progress bar
indicating how far the process has progressed but it also says which
device is currently being initialised which is almost certainly the
cause of the error.

The "Initialising Cockpit" window might be hidden by the Python errors
window titled "Failed to initialise cockpit".  This can simply be
moved out of the way.  This window will contain a stack of the Python
code which may be beneficial in tracing obscure errors.

An additional status tool is part of cockpit.  This can be run like
so:

.. code-block:: bash

    python -m cockpit.status

This tool takes processes the Cockpit configuration files and then
attempts to connect to all specified devices.  The host machine is
pinged to see if it is on and contactable.  Then a test connection to
the Pyro server of the specified device is performed.  Example output
from this script is below:

.. code-block:: text

    PING 127.0.0.1 (127.0.0.1): 56 data bytes
    64 bytes from 127.0.0.1: icmp_seq=0 ttl=64 time=0.053 ms

    --- 127.0.0.1 ping statistics ---
    1 packets transmitted, 1 packets received, 0.0% packet loss
    round-trip min/avg/max/stddev = 0.053/0.053/0.053/0.000 ms

    DEVICE                        HOSTNAME  STATUS    PORT
    ======                        ========  ======    ======
    Testlaser                    localhost  up        open
    cameraB                      localhost  up        open
    cameraG                      localhost  up        open
    cameraR                      localhost  up        closed
    dsp                          127.0.0.1  up        open
    filterwheelB                 localhost  up        open
    filterwheelG                 localhost  up        open
    filterwheelR                 localhost  up        open
    server                       127.0.0.1  up        closed
    stage                        localhost  up        open

    skipped server:  in ingore list
    skipped 40x:  no host or uri
    skipped zPiezo:  no host or uri

In this example it can clearly be seen that ``cameraR`` is closed so
is the device preventing cockpit from starting up.  This error was
produced be deliberately connecting to the wrong port to generate an
error on startup.

Experiment problems
===================

The most complex section of the cockpit system is running experiments
based on an external timing device. The code sets up a table,
called an action table, that contains the timings and chnages in
digital or analogue signals which is then uploaded to a device which
runs this in a tight timning loop to 
